OSDOCS-14472: CPMS custom machine name prefixes (#93119)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cpmso-config-options.adoc

Author: I wrote this as a procedure based on the docs epic content journey, but if this would be better represented as just a conceptual section with an example snippet (i.e. no instructions on how to edit the CR), let me know.

Reviewer: yeah good to show the process: this is in fact a task :)

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * machine_management/cpmso-configuration.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cpmso-config-prefix_{context}"]
= Adding a custom prefix to control plane machine names

> You can customize the prefix of machine names created by a control plane machine set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can customize the prefix of machine names created by the control plane machine set.
```

This can be done by editing a control plane machine set custom resource (CR)

.Procedure

> // Saw the step below in another procedure, let me know if it's good to keep it in here.

Reviewer 2: Should we remove this?

Author: If you think the step below is valid to keep (which I am guessing is the case), then I'll go ahead and delete this comment.

> . Edit your control plane machine set CR by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: Which one is the right way to write this?
- control plane machine set
- control plane machine set CR
- control plane machine set custom resource (CR)
- `ControlPlaneMachineSet` CR

I am seeing all these are being used interchangeably.

Reviewer 2: Please cross-verify within your team for the right usage here.

Reviewer: The "control plane machine set" is defined by a "control plane machine set custom resource (CR)" which has the `kind` value of `ControlPlaneMachineSet`. So, in answer to the list above:

- control plane machine set
  - this is valid, but here we are talking about editing the YAML CR so I would probably lean towards one of the others.
- control plane machine set CR
  - this is valid and works here. In the repo, I see it 36 times.
- control plane machine set custom resource (CR)
  - this is just how you are always supposed to write "CR" on first appearance. Once you define an abbreviation, you don't keep doing so. This is correct for line 10 above where it appears, afterwards it should be CR.
- `ControlPlaneMachineSet` CR
  - this is valid and works here.  In the repo, I see it 32 times

So, apparently I have been pretty evenly inconsistent on using "control plane machine set" and "`ControlPlaneMachineSet`" in front of custom resource/CR. For tangentially related docs reasons, I think we should prefer to write it as `ControlPlaneMachineSet` to avoid confusion with a "compute machine set" which is just `MachineSet`. I'll leave comments on this PR with my recommendations.

I will sweep the repo to change "control plane machine set CR" to "`ControlPlaneMachineSet` CR" at some point.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit controlplanemachineset.machine.openshift.io cluster \
  -n openshift-machine-api
----

> . Add the following snippet to the `ControlPlaneMachineSet` CR:

Author: Will the `.spec.machineNamePrefix` field already be specified in all `ControlPlaneMachineSet` CRs for 4.19+ clusters, and users are free to change the value from the default? 

Or do users need to add the field to the CR the first time they are trying to customize the prefix?

For now I will change the wording to match what you are suggesting. But if they need to add this field the first time, maybe it should be worded like "add the `.spec.machineNamePrefix field` to the `ControlPlaneMachineSet` CR."

> . Add the following snippet to the `ControlPlaneMachineSet` CR:

Reviewer 3: > Will the `.spec.machineNamePrefix` field already be specified in all `ControlPlaneMachineSet` CRs for 4.19+ clusters, and users are free to change the value from the default?
> 
No, there is no `.spec.machineNamePrefix` field in `ControlPlaneMachineSet` CRs by default.

> Or do users need to add the field to the CR the first time they are trying to customize the prefix?
> 
So right, users need to add the field to the CR the first time they are trying to customize the prefix.

> . Add the following snippet to the `ControlPlaneMachineSet` CR:

Reviewer 2: Technically, `.spec.machineNamePrefix` field is added in the API by default for 4.19+ (`oc explain` command can help here). Since the type of the field is `string`; it's defaulted to empty string and not showing up in the yaml. 

So I am fine using whichever wording makes sense: `add` or `edit`

+
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  machineNamePrefix: <machine_prefix>
----
+
where `<machine_prefix>` specifies a prefix name that satisfies the following requirements:

** The name contains no more than 253 characters
** The name contains only lowercase alphanumeric characters, `-`, or `.`
** The name starts and ends with an alphanumeric character

> 

Author: I will rewrite this to basically say exactly what this text says is a requirenemt

. Save your changes to the `ControlPlaneMachineSet` CR.

> . If you are using an `OnDelete` update strategy for your control plane machine set: Manually apply the prefix to the name of any existing machines.

Author: If there are verification steps to add, please let me know. 

For example, what command to run to check machine names, and example output of that command

> . If you are using an `OnDelete` update strategy for your control plane machine set: Manually apply the prefix to the name of any existing machines.

Reviewer 3: For both `OnDelete` and `RollingUpdate`, we can delete an existing machine, then a new replacement machine will be created with the prefixed name. 
For `RollingUpdate`, we can also add some labels to the master machine template metadata to force a rollout. for example, under a master machine's .spec.providerSpec.value.metadata, add a label like
```
      metadata:
        labels:
          old: old
```
then a new replacement machine will be created with the prefixed name.

> . If you are using an `OnDelete` update strategy for your control plane machine set: Manually apply the prefix to the name of any existing machines.

Author: Do we want to add this extra step to add labels, specifically for people using `RollingUpdate`? Or should we just tell users to delete their old machines no matter which strategy they're using, and assume that people who use `RollingUpdate` should already be familiar with forcing rollouts?

I'm happy to document whichever option you guys prefer!

> . If you are using an `OnDelete` update strategy for your control plane machine set: Manually apply the prefix to the name of any existing machines.

Reviewer 3: > Do we want to add this extra step to add labels, specifically for people using `RollingUpdate`? Or should we just tell users to delete their old machines no matter which strategy they're using, and assume that people who use `RollingUpdate` should already be familiar with forcing rollouts?
> 
I prefer the latter. Because even for adding labels when people using `RollingUpdate`, it's the same work as deleting old machines, people have to do that one by one manually, and have to wait until a new master machine get Running and the old master machine disappeared, and then do the same operation on the next old master machine.

> . If you are using an `OnDelete` update strategy for your control plane machine set: Manually apply the prefix to the name of any existing machines.

Reviewer 2: In the case of `RollingUpdate` strategy, any trigger (for example, adding a label in the providerSpec of `ControlPlaneMachineSet`) should replace the old machines one by one without manually removing them. 

However, in the case of `OnDelete` strategy, replacement machines will only be created in the event of the deletion of the existing machine.

> . If you are using an `OnDelete` update strategy for your control plane machine set: Manually apply the prefix to the name of any existing machines.

Reviewer: @huali9 and @chiragkyal I would vote that we [use the same construct](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/93119#discussion_r2095884729) I have elsewhere. We typically don't specifically tell users to delete a machine if they don't _have_ to.

My reasoning here is that I think after you save the config, you should be prepared to see one of the following behaviors:

- `RollingUpdate` (default): CMPS goes off and updates the machines. By saying this, users aren't surprised to see it doing something if they didn't know/forgot how CPMS is configured on the cluster.
- `OnDelte`: Nothing happens w/o your action. Again, no surprises for the user, and tells them how to make it change the machines. 
It might also be that the user wants to make some other changes, so they might do a few things and THEN delete machines to kick it off. So again I don't wanna say "you must do this right now" since that's not true as far as I understand.

> . If you are using an `OnDelete` update strategy for your control plane machine set: Manually apply the prefix to the name of any existing machines.

Reviewer 3: Hi @jeana-redhat Your suggestion basically LGTM. 
But it should be noted that even though it is `RollingUpdate`, only changing `machineNamePrefix` will not trigger an update. Other changes are required to trigger an update. Like @chiragkyal mentioned adding a label in the providerSpec of `ControlPlaneMachineSet` should replace the old machines one by one without manually removing them. But if users don't want to change other values in the `ControlPlaneMachineSet` except `machineNamePrefix`, then they need to delete the old master machines one by one or add labels to the old master machines one by one to trigger the replacement. 
Refer https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OAPE-22?focusedId=26363185&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels%3Acomment-tabpanel#comment-26363185

> . If you are using an `OnDelete` update strategy for your control plane machine set: Manually apply the prefix to the name of any existing machines.

Reviewer: Ack, thanks @huali9! Ok, in that case I think we would need to explicitly state that this change won't trigger a rolling update, since that is likely unexpected behavior from the user perspective. I'll amend my suggestion accordingly

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * machine_management/cpmso-configuration.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cpmso-config-prefix_{context}"]
= Adding a custom prefix to control plane machine names

You can customize the prefix of machine names created by the control plane machine set.

> This can be done by editing the control plane machine set custom resource (CR)

Reviewer: Let's use:
```suggestion
This can be done by editing the `ControlPlaneMachineSet` custom resource (CR).
```

.Procedure

> . Edit your control plane machine set CR by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Edit the `ControlPlaneMachineSet` CR by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit controlplanemachineset.machine.openshift.io cluster \
  -n openshift-machine-api
----

. Edit the `.spec.machineNamePrefix` field of the `ControlPlaneMachineSet` CR:
+
[source,yaml]
----

> spec:
>   machineNamePrefix: <machine_prefix>

Reviewer: Missing some [Required fields](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#required-fields) here and `...` to show there's more unwritten:

```suggestion
apiVersion: machine.openshift.io/v1
kind: ControlPlaneMachineSet
metadata:
  name: cluster
  namespace: openshift-machine-api
spec:
  machineNamePrefix: <machine_prefix>
# ...
```

----
+
where `<machine_prefix>` specifies a prefix name that follows the requirements for a lowercase RFC 1123 subdomain.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
A lowercase RFC 1123 subdomain must consist of only lowercase alphanumeric characters, hyphens ('-'), and periods ('.').
Each block, separated by periods, must start and end with an alphanumeric character.
Hyphens are not allowed at the start or end of a block, and consecutive periods are not permitted.
====

> . Save your changes to the `ControlPlaneMachineSet` CR.
> 
> . Delete your existing machines and wait for replacement machines with the new prefix name to be created.
> 
> // For now I am documenting this generic step above, but I can also add a step for RollingUpdate users to force rollouts.

Reviewer: I've used this before, probably just copy it for consistency:
```suggestion
. Save your changes.

.Next steps

* For clusters that use the default `RollingUpdate` update strategy, the control plane machine set propagates changes to your control plane configuration automatically.

* For clusters that are configured to use the `OnDelete` update strategy, you must replace your control plane machines manually.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * machine_management/cpmso-configuration.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cpmso-config-prefix_{context}"]
= Adding a custom prefix to control plane machine names

> You can customize the prefix of machine names created by the control plane machine set.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can customize the prefix of machine names that the control plane machine set created.
```
Tweak to avoid passive voice.

> This can be done by editing the `ControlPlaneMachineSet` custom resource (CR)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This can be done by editing the `ControlPlaneMachineSet` custom resource (CR).
```

Author: Good catch, thanks!

.Procedure

. Edit the `ControlPlaneMachineSet` CR by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit controlplanemachineset.machine.openshift.io cluster \
  -n openshift-machine-api
----

. Edit the `.spec.machineNamePrefix` field of the `ControlPlaneMachineSet` CR:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machine.openshift.io/v1
kind: ControlPlaneMachineSet
metadata:
  name: cluster
  namespace: openshift-machine-api
spec:
  machineNamePrefix: <machine_prefix>
# ...
----
+
where `<machine_prefix>` specifies a prefix name that follows the requirements for a lowercase RFC 1123 subdomain.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
A lowercase RFC 1123 subdomain must consist of only lowercase alphanumeric characters, hyphens ('-'), and periods ('.').
Each block, separated by periods, must start and end with an alphanumeric character.
Hyphens are not allowed at the start or end of a block, and consecutive periods are not permitted.
====

. Save your changes.

.Next steps

> * Changing only the value of the `machineNamePrefix` parameter does not cause an automatic update for clusters that use the default `RollingUpdate` update strategy.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* If you changed only the value of the `machineNamePrefix` parameter, clusters that use the default `RollingUpdate` update strategy are not automatically updated.
```

> .Next steps
> 
> * For clusters that use the default `RollingUpdate` update strategy, the control plane machine set propagates changes to your control plane configuration automatically.
> 
> * For clusters that are configured to use the `OnDelete` update strategy, you must replace your control plane machines manually.

Reviewer: Per https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/93119#discussion_r2096760163
```suggestion
.Next steps

* Changing the value of the `machineNamePrefix` parameter does not cause an automatic update for clusters that use the default `RollingUpdate` update strategy.
To propagate this change, you must replace your control plane machines manually, regardless of the update strategy for the cluster.
For more information, see "Replacing a control plane machine".
```

= Adding a custom prefix to control plane machine names

You can customize the prefix of machine names created by the control plane machine set.
This can be done by editing the `ControlPlaneMachineSet` custom resource (CR)

.Procedure

. Edit the `ControlPlaneMachineSet` CR by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit controlplanemachineset.machine.openshift.io cluster \
  -n openshift-machine-api
----

. Edit the `.spec.machineNamePrefix` field of the `ControlPlaneMachineSet` CR:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machine.openshift.io/v1
kind: ControlPlaneMachineSet
metadata:
  name: cluster
  namespace: openshift-machine-api
spec:
  machineNamePrefix: <machine_prefix>
# ...
----
+
where `<machine_prefix>` specifies a prefix name that follows the requirements for a lowercase RFC 1123 subdomain.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
A lowercase RFC 1123 subdomain must consist of only lowercase alphanumeric characters, hyphens ('-'), and periods ('.').
Each block, separated by periods, must start and end with an alphanumeric character.
Hyphens are not allowed at the start or end of a block, and consecutive periods are not permitted.
====

. Save your changes.

.Next steps

> * Changing the value of the `machineNamePrefix` parameter does not cause an automatic update for clusters that use the default `RollingUpdate` update strategy.

Reviewer 3: How about adding `only` here? like 

Only changing the value of the `machineNamePrefix` parameter does not cause an automatic update for clusters that use the default `RollingUpdate` update strategy.

Because if there are other changes along with the `machineNamePrefix` parameter, then it will cause an automatic update for clusters that use the default `RollingUpdate` update strategy. New master machines' name will be prefixed with the value you set for `machineNamePrefix`.

Reviewer: good point! :+1:

Author: Great, updating this to specify using the word "only" here

> * Changing the value of the `machineNamePrefix` parameter does not cause an automatic update for clusters that use the default `RollingUpdate` update strategy.
> 
> To propagate this change, you must replace your control plane machines manually, regardless of the update strategy for the cluster.
> For more information, see "Replacing a control plane machine".

Reviewer: Stray line here
```suggestion
* Changing the value of the `machineNamePrefix` parameter does not cause an automatic update for clusters that use the default `RollingUpdate` update strategy.
To propagate this change, you must replace your control plane machines manually, regardless of the update strategy for the cluster.
For more information, see "Replacing a control plane machine".
```
